---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

The theme in my Ph.D. Dissertation can be summarized as competitive strategies in food retail sector. The first two chapters of my Ph.D. dissertation examines the profitability of price discrimination (PD) schemes under different information environments by combining nonlinear pricing theory with machine learning (ML) techniques. Theoretical PD models typically exogenously impose consumer segments using assumptions that may or may not be reasonable for specific applications. Given advances in computing power, ML methods can now replace exogenous assumptions in forming consumer clusters that can proxy different consumer segments, making theoretical models more applicable in practice.

The specific question we explore is how informationally robust price discrimination techniques are. Using Nielsen scanner data, we construct full information including consumers’ demographics and purchase history, and limited information including only demographics. We then apply K-Means clustering, which is part of the unsupervised learning methods, to segment the market. The basic idea is that consumers that are similar are assigned to a group, whereas consumers that are dissimilar are assigned to different groups. Segmenting consumers with common traits helps firms target each group in a relevant and effective way. After constructing the sample by selecting households in Nielsen Consumer scanner data, we estimate the consumer demand for yogurt products using full and limited consumer information. Applying demand estimation results to PD schemes, we show that using more information helps increase the store’s profit under second-degree PD, but does not affect the profit under third-degree PD.

The third chapter titled “Unit Pricing Regulation and Assortment Competition: Evidence from the U.S. Yogurt Market” investigates retail stores’ product assortment responses to the intensive price competition brought by Unit Pricing Regulation (UPR). Retail stores selling differentiated products are incentivized to obfuscate consumers by making direct price comparison complicated. UPR was introduced to help consumers make more informed decisions by requiring the store to display the unit price tag along with the item price for products on the shelf. Despite extensive research on UPR effects on consumers’ perceptions and decisions, much less is known about the impacts on retail stores’ price and non-price responses under intensified price competition brought by UPR. Relying on the geographic variation in UPR implementation across states and using Nielsen Scanner data, we empirically show that mass merchandizers remove products without changing prices, whereas grocery stores without same-chain stores not under UPR add brands and charge higher prices on average. Using a structural demand model to estimate consumer welfare changes, we find that, on average, consumer welfare falls for both retail formats, highlighting an unintended policy effect.

Besides my dissertation, I have been involved in several research projects related to U.S. food supply chain. As a research assistant, I have worked closely with Dr. Meilin Ma on two projects. In the paper titled “African Swine Fever in China: Impacts, Responses, and Policy Implications” that was published in Food Policy, we examine the impacts of African Swine Fever (ASF) on China’s hog industry, and propose a more efficient way to reduce its influence. ASF broke out in China in August 2018 and has caused a substantial loss to China’s hog industry, leading to large increases in the pork price. The government subsidized large-scale hog farms to suppress the price. With an updated estimation of China’s meat demand, we argue that the ongoing policy interventions may not be the most efficient for achieving short-run reductions in the pork price. Subsidizing the production of chicken, a major substitute for pork and currently accounting for a relatively small share of meat consumption in China, could help suppress the pork price faster and at lower government costs. By estimating price dynamics and computing consumer surplus of multiple subsidy plans over a 30-month window from the third quarter of 2019 to the last quarter of 2021, we show that allocating some subsidies from hog to chicken farms is likely to benefit consumers, producers, and the government. 

In another work titled “Retailers’ Product Assortment Decisions During the Great Recession: Evidence from the U.S. Yogurt Market” that was submitted to European Review of Agricultural Economics, we explore how U.S. retail stores adjusted product offerings in response to the shocks in local markets. Using heterogeneity in timing, location, and magnitude of income and wealth shocks associated with the 2008 Great Recession, we show that stores reduce yogurt product variety and change yogurt product sizes besides lowering prices. Using a structural demand model, we find that, on average, the consumer welfare losses from yogurt variety reduction more than offset the welfare gains from price reductions.

Collaborating with researchers at USDA, I have worked with Dr. Joseph Balagtas on a project about the Covid-19 effcts on U.S. meat market. In the work in progress titled “Consumer Demand for Food at Home and Food Away from Home and Implications for Derived Demand for Agricultural Commodities”, a paper in 2022 AAEA invited paper session, we empirically explore the differential effects of supply disruptions and food-service shock on retail Food at Home (FAH) meat prices. It is shown that sharp increase in inflation in 2021 and 2022 was largely caused by rapidly rising food prices, especially meat prices. The IRI scanner data show large increases in prices and FAH quantities for beef, pork and poultry. The expenditure and traffics from NPD data show the dramatic decrease in demand for food service after the stay-at-home order was in effect. From the supply side, we see a huge reduction in meat slaughter in summer 2020. We quantify the disruption of food-service on prices of the three meat products. We show that supply disruptions in beef packing industry led to higher prices in March to May of 2020, with little impact in the rest of the year. For pork, the increased production in mid-late summer in 2020 helped reduce prices.

My future research will continue to focus on competitive strategies of organizations in the retail sector using scanner data. Specifically, I am interested in how the store adjusts their product assortment and prices across different product categories in response to policies/regulations or shocks in the local market. Moreover, I intend to further explore the heterogeneous welfare impacts on consumers due to a certain regulation/policy since it is important to know which income levels suffer or benefit most. Besides, I am particularly interested in studying umbrella branding strategies of multi-product firms and the corresponding welfare effects under different market structures.

<nbsp>

{% include base_path %}

{% assign ordered_pages = site.research | sort:"order_number" %}

{% for post in ordered_pages %}
  {% include archive-single.html type="grid" %}
{% endfor %}
